- [Instructor] So far, we have seen how we can deploy
a multicontainer application on a single host.
We have also deployed a single container application
on multinode.
Let's take a look at how can we deploy
a multicontainer application on a multihost cluster.
That is a typical reality of life.
That is how you will build your applications.
That is how your applications will go into production.
Let's take a look.
I'm back in my terminal here.
Let's take a look at the services that are running.
There is one service running from the previous section,
so let's remove that service.
It's very convenient.
No services are running now.
Let's clear up our screen,
and refer to the instructions file.
I'm going to copy this compose file here.
And remember, I am actually already logged into manager1,
so if I do a pwd, it says home/docker,
and the manager1 shows that I am running in manager1.
So I'm going to create a docker-compose.yml here,
and I'm going to paste it here.
Okay, now this is a compose file
that we are already familiar with.
We talked about this in a previous section,
so you should be comfortable with it,
but just a quick summary,
we are using arungupta/couchbase-javaee image here,
which is basically a javaee application deployed in Wildfly
which then uses COUCHBASE_URI as an environment variable
that uses db as a value.
This db points to this db service,
which is a couchbase service,
which then exposes all different ports
that are needed in order to access the couchbase database.
So let's save the file here.
Important point that I want to highlight again.
It's important that you log in to manager1
and then save the compose file.
Otherwise, there is no way for you to pass the compose file
to the docker command, which is going to be run
on docker manager.
So log into manager1, then save your compose file.
Now, one of the new commands that was introduced
in docker 113 is docker stack.
If we take a look at the help,
it says it allows you to deploy a stack,
list the stack, list the tasks in the stack,
remove a stack, and list the services in the stack.
That's the command that we're going to use
to deploy a multicontainer application
to multiple hosts.
I'm going to say docker stack deploy,
and if I look for help again here,
it shows me the options that are available.
I'm going to use a compose file,
so we will use a compose file here,
and now we're going to refer to docker-compose.yml
and we're going to create a stack here.
Remember, this docker-compose file is available
on my manager1, that's why it's important
to create this file on manager1 as opposed to a local host.
So let's create this stack here,
it's going to create my network and my services
as part of that.
So now if I say docker stack ls,
it's going to show me that the stack has been created
and has got two service.
So take a look at services then, docker service ls.
And it shows my services are there.
And it also shows the status of the service.
So the first service is webapp_web,
which is basically my Wildfly application.
The second service is webapp_db,
which is my couchbase container.
The couchbase image has not been downloaded so far,
so what's happening right now is
the image is getting downloaded
and the container will then get started.
So let's take a look at the status again.
That is indeed the case.
So now the couchbase container is started,
and so is my javaee Wildfly application as well.
Now I would like to look at the logs of the service.
However, if I do docker info here,
and if we look at experimental, it says false,
because we are running a GA version of docker.
If I was running an experimental version
and if this would have said true,
then there was a convenience command which
would have allowed me to show the logs off the bat.
I prefer to stay with the GA builds for courses,
so docker services logs service name
will essentially not work here.
But we have a workaround for that,
so we'll take a look at that.
So once again, these are my services that are running.
Now I can say docker service ps, I can say webapp:web,
and it says okay, your service is running,
and is running on worker3.
So if I want to see the logs for this service,
I need to get out of manager1,
and I need to log into worker3,
and then I need to say show me what containers are running.
And it shows me the containers are running here.
This is my container ID here,
and I can say docker container ls, rather logs,
and it shows me the logs here.
It rightly shows that
the airlines.war file has been deployed.
And if we scroll up a little bit,
you'll see the sleeping for three seconds
where it's waiting for the indexes to be created,
where it's waiting for the bucket to be loaded,
where it's waiting for the query service to be up,
that's the resiliency part of the application
that we talked about earlier.
So now let's get out of worker3 essentially,
and if I log in back to, say, manager1,
and I say docker stack ls,
this is sort of my top level application.
Now this was deployed to manager1,
so essentially I should be able to access this application
using my manager1 as well, okay?
So get out of it and on my command line itself
I can say curl, but before we do curl,
so this is my docker-machine ls.
Here is my manager1 running, here is the IP address for it.
So what I can do is I can say curl http,
and then in here itself I can say docker-machine ip,
manager1, and then when our service was started,
we observed an ingress whiteboard 8080,
so we're going to do that, and then we're going to say airlines,
it's a rest endpoint, and we'll say airline like this.
And there you go, we got the exact same output
that we got on a single host.
So this is exactly how we deployed
a multicontainer application on multiple host very easily.
Now, if you were running experimental release,
accessing the logs of the service would've been much easier,
but you can see that there is always a workaround for that.
Now that we have accessed the application,
we can remove the stack as well.
So this is running on the local host here,
so we need to log in to our manager for that.
So docker-machine ssh manager1,
we are in the manager now,
and then we're going to say docker stack ls,
it shows two services are running as part of the stack.
I can say docker stack rm webapp, and there you go.
Both my services and my network has been removed.
So in this section we saw how we can create
a multicontainer service, we can deploy it
on multiple hosts.
Now if we were running an experimental version
of docker engine then it was much easier
for us to access the logs of the service,
but even then we can do that,
but we still have a workaround for it.
So a typical real-life application would be
running your application in a multicontainer mode
and would be deployed across multiple hosts.
So this section would be very useful for you.